the chat yeah we're live all right hello hi everyone it's a pleasure to have you with us today i my name is lisa nester i am a I my name is lisa nester I am a senior strategist at the Stellar development foundation and you are joining us for our third roundtable discussion second topic that we've ever covered and we are very happy to have you with and we are very happy to have you with us today
us today so i guess to get started i'd love to so I guess to get started i'd love to kind of frame again the purpose of these roundtable discussions hopefully we're going to have a lot of audience members and viewers joining in and we'd love to invite you into the discussion as well and then i'll jump into what the topic for today is so in general at the Stellar development foundation you know we want to make sure that we're you know we want to make sure that we're facilitating broad inclusive ecosystem driven discussion around the types of tools that the stuller ecosystem needs to continue to grow on and have successful use cases and businesses utilizing stuller and so in that regard we've started these enterprise roundtable discussions to invite key enterprises within the Stellar ecosystem to sit down at a table with various members of the seller development foundation to discuss topics that are really timely and important for the growth of the ecosystem right now and as i've mentioned we also live
and as i've mentioned we also live stream these events and have a q a box for any viewers so and have a q a box for any viewers so that we really can do our best to include all of the voices in the ecosystem so if you're watching us and you have comments or questions as we go through this discussion please drop them in the chat box and we'll do our best to respond and include those perspectives so for the discussion today we're going to be talking about custodial versus non-custodial applications in the Stellar ecosystem and so why is this an important topic well the truth is that if you're building a product on stuller or any blockchain network really one of the first things you have to figure out is how to manage your user secret keys there are two fundamentally different approaches that are seemingly practically and philosophically at odds custodial solution keeps keep keys on behalf of users and non-custodial solutions put keys into users hands and i think
put keys into users hands and I think most of us would agree that during the early days of stuller and also within the broader crypto landscape non-custodial wallet designs were kind of by and far the default in my opinion this is because the novelty of kind of being your own bank and having direct access to digital assets drove forward applications and wallets that were primarily not custodial nature however as the Stellar ecosystem has grown over the last few years we have seen more custodial design approaches by enterprise and our ecosystem so that's why we're opening up this discussion today because we've seen a lot of growth in applications on stuller that are getting more and more users we think it's a great time to check in on how wallets are currently set up experiences people are having and how they're thinking about moving forward and then also we have two at least two and then also we have two at least two kind of specific technical developments within the Stellar ecosystem that are worth checking in on as
that are worth checking in on as they're related to the specific topic at hand so one is cap 27 so cap 27 is allows first class multi multiplex accounts this was included in protocol 13 and it basically allows services to map a single seller account to multiple users and it could make custodial solutions a lot easier to build on the other hand we also have sep 30 on the other hand we also have sep 30 which is a recovery signer and this defines an api that enables a user to regain access to a Stellar account after losing a private key without providing a third party control of the account we're actually really lucky to have the key architect for step 30 lee from the sdf joining us today and this solution in particular is something that could make non-custodial solutions a bit easier so kind of checking in on where things are at and also thinking about these two new technical developments this is going to be the focus of our this is going to be the focus of our discussion today on custodial versus
discussion today on custodial versus non-custodial solutions so with that i would love to get so with that I would love to get started and i would love to start by having and I would love to start by having our fantastic guests join us i will call you out just because we're I will call you out just because we're on screen and not in person so if i can invite marco to stardust so if I can invite marco to stardust hello thanks for having us here my name is marco i am one of the co-founders at saldo I am one of the co-founders at saldo mx and anchor service for the mexican peso wonderful thanks marco all right how about meinhard next yes so yeah my name is mayanhard and I'm the ceo and founder of satoshi pay and recently we launched d transfer which is a b2b cross-border money transfer service and that's kind of the main focus of what we're doing right now awesome and actually for god i said that awesome and actually for god I said that i was going to ask a special I was going to ask a special surprise question so we'll come back to
surprise question so we'll come back to you marco and this goes straight to you mine hard any new quarantine hobbies that you've picked up over the last nine months we'll say 20 new hobbies not strictly your hobby but i meditate every day so that's going to be something i picked so that's going to be something I picked up okay this time yeah awesome marco well this is exactly i mean not a hobby well this is exactly I mean not a hobby either but i've been like learning a lot of cooking months so yeah and I enjoy it so happy hopefully other people are enjoying it too that's awesome that's great cool and then i will turn it over to you cool and then I will turn it over to you christian yes thanks for having me I'm christian the cto and co-founder of d-stock so we do tokenized securities such as apple and tesla and make them tradeable on the decks
on the decks and yeah we're live since i think not and yeah we're live since I think not two or three months and have looked deep into custodial solutions quite late great and any quarantine hobbies that you picked up not really hobbies actually so actually the thing is in germany there was a lockdown of schools as well so i was lockdown of schools as well so I was like after doing a lot of cryptographic math in the last year i was doing a lot of in the last year I was doing a lot of primary school mars this year when i was primary school mars this year when I was had to teach my daughter so that has become my hobby that's fair enough that's good all right and so next i'll hand it over to justin from the sdf hi I'm justin head of ecosystem at the Stellar development foundation excited to be here obviously well my team we care a lot about what the ecosystem is doing and whenever there are improvements or changes part of what we try to find out is part of what we try to find out is whether they work for the ecosystem and also how to get them out there so that also how to get them out there so that everybody's using them in a way that makes things interoperable so very interested to hear people's feedback my quarantine hobby so far is
feedback my quarantine hobby so far is that's an important hobby I hope everyone checks it out any homeowner should make sure to develop that hobby i live in an old house and it turns out I live in an old house and it turns out there was a lot of asbestos and okay that just becomes a consuming thing it can yeah absolutely okay and then last but not least lee yeah hi I'm liam khalik I'm a software engineer at the Stellar development foundation and i contribute to and I contribute to sets like sub 30 septem and yeah I'm just really interested in custodial and non-custodial solutions and how we make them interoperable well sounds like you're in the right place lee but you can you don't get away without letting us know if you have any quarantine hobbies as well similar to christian
similar to christian definitely became a teacher as well okay those are skills that will pay off though I'm sure so that's great i myself picked up that's great I myself picked up skateboarding and this thing called a rip stick a little bit that's kind of like a cool that was you know a good way to cool that was you know a good way to when maybe there's no commute it was a nice way to spend the afternoons after work so okay great well i would love to so okay great well I would love to dive in i guess straight into the meat of it I guess straight into the meat of it which is i'd love to hear what each of you are i'd love to hear what each of you are doing for your current custodial strategy with estoc and saldo and satoshi bay and you know maybe a little bit about why you chose that approach and how you're thinking about things now moving forward so minehart perhaps we'll start with you sure so at satoshi bay we essentially have three major services one is the micro payment service that we're known for micropayment for digital content then there's obviously the solar wallet
then there's obviously the solar wallet open source Stellar wallet and then recently there's d transfer and all of them all of them use a wallet solution that's self-custodial and I'm saying self-control here because internally we use that word instead of non-custodial because we think non-custodial is a bit misleading because there is a custodian which is yourself and so we chose to be self-custodial essentially just to have everything be software and all the trust is in software and not in any external party not even us this helps us to move further or to release products to the market much quicker and also has removed a huge overhead in potential regulation or regulatory requirements that we have to regulatory requirements that we have to fulfill so we can just push out the software and so we can just push out the software and sort of have people manage their own private keys and therefore being really just a software provider in that sense and that being said so for d transfer
and that being said so for d transfer we recently also released a self custodial resolution on monday actually to production and here we really give users the full control over the funds and also the reason again is a regulatory one however in the future we plan to give users a choice maybe that they can either have a custodial solution by us or by some other external the custodial party that we partner with or even combine both approaches that's super interesting I mean is that something that would be a relatively easy opt-in decision to kind of automate from a back-end perspective or would these need to be two totally separate kind of infrastructure solutions so yeah so the combination would be very separate or not very but a pretty separate legal let's say connections that we have with our users and also technically it would be quite different yeah so
it would be quite different yeah so that's also where the different caps and steps come into play each on their side so it's going to be quite some development work and also some let's say legal ground work that we have to lay first what is motivating you to consider adding this second solution where you provide custody mainly user experience because a lot of the customers we have are not familiar with this sort of power that self has so also the power to lose your self has so also the power to lose your money essentially and that is something we want to maybe give users the choice if they you know want to be in full control or if they trust us with a certain amount of their money or even all of their money or even all of their money like a more like a bank-like service it's also right now we didn't find a custody partner yet and also we're not regulated in that way so it's we can't actually legally launch
it's we can't actually legally launch a self or sorry a custodial solution at this point but we can launch the self custodial and that's why we move forward with that we can now handle bigger with that we can now handle bigger transactions as well as much as there's digits and there's let's say a Stellar code we can add like even very code we can add like even very large amounts if we want that's great I really want to dive into some of those points more specifically around you know the usability side of things and I'm also kind of curious to hear for and I'm also kind of curious to hear for the users that you think would want a non-custodial solution kind of what is a driver or motivator there as well but maybe let's go ahead and jump to marco to get a little bit more jump to marco to get a little bit more of our landscape about where we're all currently or where you're currently sitting yeah thanks well philosophically I'm personally very
philosophically I'm personally very aligned with the self-custody movement that you know cryptocurrency has started and i don't see for example in I don't see for example in single asset blockchain such as bitcoin the really the need of thinking through like custodial solutions but however i i've seen but however I i've seen Stellar since the very beginning seeing and realizing the market opportunity of representing real-world assets on this public network and allow exchanges and transfers and that requires a lot of companies like ours to that are regulated entities capable of holding value for on the behalf of their users to participate and the needs actually that these companies have is they're very different
have is they're very different because like they want to leverage the this ability to hold people's funds and be able to like improve usability as much as possible and remove any friction that can be created by the self-custody approach which we all know very well and i think and I think what we've seen is under development especially you know from the ecosystem of standards that can help expand those custodial solutions and i think that's something and I think that's something that we should think through more and focus because the same way that in cryptocurrency has been like
in cryptocurrency has been like expanding thanks in big part to exchanges which are custodial solutions i think that it at the end of the day it I think that it at the end of the day it will be extremely beneficial for all if more custodial solutions are able to adopt the kind of the Stellar to adopt the kind of the Stellar protocol in a way that makes sense for them in a way that makes sense for them and in that way increase the use of the whole network and benefit including like those players that are using players that are using self-custody solutions yeah I mean I think that this is you know it's i think there's kind of a philosophical I think there's kind of a philosophical point of tension here where you know i think many of the where you know I think many of the people within the Stellar community really like the financial sovereignty that blockchain can provide but there's also typically a deep desire to create impact to use a platform like Stellar to
a platform like Stellar to provide more access to financial products and services for everyone right and so how do we do that in really and so how do we do that in really simple ways or how do we do that in ways that ways or how do we do that in ways that work across user types outside of just people who really understand cryptocurrency so but marco can you help clarify how does saldo actually work how are you set up right now yeah so we as an anchor support like both like approaches so if someone wants to you know utilize our services through a non-custodial solution like lobster they can go ahead and do it but we're they can go ahead and do it but we're also maintaining a service that it's called smx that it's our custodial solution that we believe it's really important for the business development of for the business development of our company so that basically is a very easy way
so that basically is a very easy way to use a wallet that allows especially mexicans who are in the us working hard and sending money over to hold a little bit of mexican pesos in a digital way and that replaces the need to go and cross the border and open a bank account which is almost impossible for the majority of them so like we are really focusing on this community which is not tech savvy he's not a part of the crypto community at all and we've been like super motivated from what we've seen and this is a community that actually and this is a community that actually could not care less about like the self sovereign aspect of crypto but they just want like the task to be done and so they we've been like developing these with these people in mind and that's for our company a big focus right now and we also want to make it compatible with any other Stellar-based solution but
any other Stellar-based solution but in our approach this is in our approach this is a fully custodial way of doing the of using our anchor gotcha and it sounds like you already have some thoughts on where there could be more support within the Stellar ecosystem for being able to kind of launch these types of products yeah i think that you know they're yeah I think that you know they're already there a lot of interesting discussions like the like interesting discussions like the moxed like multiplexed accounts that you mentioned but probably we yeah we and I'm sure we will talk more about this later on but i think that it's in general I think that it's in general very interesting just to kind of like see what the users are doing and just like see that basically and just like see that basically the entire world it's gonna take a long time for the majority of people to
for the majority of people to adopt like the self-custody tools out there and i think that we should and I think that we should like be kind of like aware that there's a path towards that kind of like decentralization and in the meantime it's really important to serve the people that they want to be served in a they want to be served in a specific way and for us like we are at a stage in which for us like we are at a stage in which is really important to provide a custodial and easy to use to provide a custodial and easy to use solutions like this great yeah and i think we definitely will I think we definitely will dive into some of these various things like multiplexed accounts more so great thank you so much marco and christian i know you guys have had an christian I know you guys have had an interesting journey with these talks so we'd love to hear about what you guys are using how you set things up and how you're thinking about the future yeah i already have a lot of points i yeah I already have a lot of points i want to touch on so yeah maybe i can start with there are
yeah maybe I can start with there are actually two different ways how you or multiple ways actually how you can use these stock technologies so first of all there's an api layer which basically everyone can use it uses Stellar standards and people can build products on top of it and for that one we actually don't have any opinion on what the user how the user protects his key his or her how the user protects his key his or her keys so we just basically verify the user and where he's coming from if it's not like a terrorist something like that and then they can use their account to trade our assets but we as well that's our actually main product do we have a mobile app and because countries we serve emerging markets there's a mobile first approach and this app is actually not targeting crypto users so if you want to use if you're a so if you want to use if you're a Stellar heavy user and you want to use these stock assets you can use for example lobster wallet or something like that but for already non-crypto users who are new to investing and haven't had touch points at all
and haven't had touch points at all with crypto in the past it's actually quite of a hard concept to grasp to create a private key so like currently in our onboarding process which is self custodial I'm going to start to use this word as I'm going to start to use this word as well it's an xd minor the people actually in the onboarding process have to create a private key and we see actually some kind of a drop-off rate right on that so it's like people have a hard time doing that so i understand that they're a bit scared I understand that they're a bit scared maybe they don't understand it and things like that so that that's a problem actually to us and i think to problem actually to us and I think to everyone who wants to build end user product that's not just targeting early adopted adopters and the tricky part on this one is like in the very heart of d stock is that d in the very heart of d stock is that d stock itself does not hold customer customers funds so that's the basic idea how we can actually pull off the entire business and that's true for most of crypto companies i guess crypto companies I guess that they don't hold customers funds and
that they don't hold customers funds and are therefore eligible to cut off a lot of middlemen that are normally required in financial transactions and yeah so basically if we want to go away basically if we want to go away from that and we're actually planning to do that so we need to we want to find a solution that makes it we want to find a solution that makes it easier for undo this we have to go to some way that's not we have to go to some way that's not only self-custodial and I'm not saying well let me phrase it differently the first thing that we need to define or that we have to talk about is what actually does custodian what does the custodial solution mean in this case and this definition isn't actually as clear as i would as one would guess as clear as I would as one would guess so we're always talking about okay they're self solving their self-custodial solutions and custodial solutions but the definition of custodial is quite a bit more complex i've read it to the a bit more complex i've read it to the bit for example the barfin which is a german equivalent roughly the german equivalent to the icc in america defines custody as someone who's holding a funds off on behalf of other people is able to transfer them make payments with that and all this kind of stuff
with that and all this kind of stuff and all holds a private key that's eligible to do that and for example in step 30 that's where you say okay we're splitting off weights between third parties that need to jointly recover a key for user that's not really that definition so it's not really clear that's actually a custodial solution that would require regulations so like by the very definition of financial regulators it may not be but it's actually not that clear because it's just basically new land so nobody has actually challenged that maybe the regulators weren't even aware that their weighted keys things like that says the entire field is it's not as easy as it gets so for us it's like very as it gets so for us it's like very crucial to find a solution where we say okay people will be able to recover the key but i wouldn't call that a custodian I wouldn't call that a custodian custodial solution because the people does do not hold the funds of the user in do not hold the funds of the user in custody they're not able to
custody they're not able to transfer them doing stuff with that and more importantly they are not able to yeah then they don't have to do insurance and things like that for it so yeah that's the basic thing i'll sing around it so customian solutions are non-custodials who should be it's not the only thing in the real midst as well just mainly for us about key recovery that we want to try to solve that's great I mean I guess I'm curious do you mine heart or marco have kind of like a similar opinion or reaction extremely relevant and interesting because for example i think that for example I think that for you know for a lot of regulators the fact that a user of a regulated entity actually goes and does something and loses the private key is not sufficient like for the regulator
is not sufficient like for the regulator to just be fined the legal obligation you know that the company that the company has still is a valid payment obligation that the company needs to honor so i think it's not sufficient just to you know like it's like the key management will it's like the key management will not remove or will not make go away that legal kind of like obligation that some custodial companies have and that it's something that it's very like it's something that it's very like valid across like all the kind of like real world assets including currencies and i think including currencies and I think you know like at that point like you realize that somehow for example if a user of our anchor loses like the private key and you still see the funds you at least need to show that you have a process to
need to show that you have a process to be able to in a way cancel those funds or do something with that account and then like credit back those tokens to the new or like re-key kind of like you know like doing those things it's it helps companies like ours to comply with local regulations that are not aware of like what private keys can do and i think it's like super interesting and I think it's like super interesting and makes companies like ours realize that it's a very complex topic that is an interesting point you make oh you go first planet okay then that's interesting okay sorry for that that's an interesting point to raise i mean when interesting point to raise I mean when you when you're anchoring an
you when you're anchoring an asset you always have the option to freeze it and okay it's still on chain and it's a bit harder still on chain and it's a bit harder to keep track of it but it's still in an to keep track of it but it's still in an automated way you can prove that this assets are frozen can prove that this assets are frozen when you for example kind of when you for example kind of take away trust lines and then you can issue the token the assets new and that's it's somewhat of a cumbersome way it may be easier in the future because there are some proposed changes to Stellar to reclaim assets but this is some way to reclaim assets but this is some way for us for example to recover funds at the moment to recover funds at the moment even if the people lose their key in their self-custodial their key in their self-custodial solution the problem is actually not from that so we can always do that the problem is merely if the user just for example deposits a million in excel and then loses this key or her key or and then loses this key or her key or the same for stablecoin so may not be able up to this process so but the interesting idea of just reading the assets and reissuing them to new accounts is always an option as well that's
an option as well that's so you don't have to so that you just so you don't have to so that you just give up the old account when you lose the key just on that briefly obviously you need to flag the asset as being revocable and yeah there's acid types where you work there's configurations where you don't have that so if you forgot to do that or have that so if you forgot to do that or if you didn't plan for that then obviously that's not possible either so what we've done in our micro payments product actually we used a little bit of a trick there so we used a little bit of a trick there so we are co-signing all the transactions that are being done from for the micropens wallets and we also have a time locked transaction that we issue with each payment meaning that after a certain period of time the funds will return back to us if no the funds will return back to us if no other transactions have been made meaning that if the user loses a key and they flag us they tell us that they and they flag us they tell us that they did so we will simply not co-sign any transactions from that key anymore and then
from that key anymore and then after half a year i think it's currently after half a year I think it's currently the time that we have programmed we can then recover these funds that means we can issue even lumens to the users from we kind of give out a bit of our liquidity beforehand but in that way we can also sort of have a account recovery for accounts that actually are lost but the funds will come back to us later after half a year sort of a workaround for that issue but isn't co-signing the definition of it not being as purely self-custodial depends on the type of weight a key has so if you have you know like a minority so if you have you know like a minority weight and then so i don't know how the weight and then so I don't know how the regulator sees different types of water signatures because that's also depending on the chain obviously i well it's I well it's a hybrid i would say
a hybrid I would say yeah and i think you know just to kind yeah and I think you know just to kind of respond here so one i wanted to flag so one I wanted to flag christian had mentioned a cap on stuller which i wanted to name a cap on stuller which I wanted to name just if anybody's watching yeah cap 35 which is the asset clawback cap which is a new proposal so if anyone's interested in exploring that further but you know this is really interesting because it still feels like we're dancing around these areas of kind of how can you stay lean and you know i would say kind of you know I would say kind of do things that allow you as an organization to kind of have a leaner regulatory framework as authentic along with things that are more tied to kind of like usability and how do we
kind of like usability and how do we make experiences for consumers to that can keep their information safe but still provide kind of like non-confusing not overburdened some experiences on the product i mean do you guys see any other major I mean do you guys see any other major areas that are kind of i'll say kind of like dancing around the surface here because i know we're the surface here because I know we're kind of talking back and forth about various designs but it feels like there's kind of like larger themes or larger questions so larger themes or larger questions so maybe i can start because i mean maybe I can start because I mean we we've been like also thinking about this the problem is that if honestly it is true that it removes liability the fact that you can actually delegate the key management to your users and that like fundamentally will remove
and that like fundamentally will remove like regular regulatory like load the problem is that if you see what happens in fintech is that okay regulation in fintech is that okay regulation is more expensive than software sure but is it at the top of the list i don't think so it's like you have I don't think so it's like you have software which is cheap and then you have regulation which is way more expensive and then you have distribution so if you see like what's the big expenses that the companies have it's most like distribution a customer acquisition cost is what sometimes kills like the unit economics so it's not regulation at all even if it's like super expensive so i think that a lot of companies so I think that a lot of companies realize that okay yeah there's some efficiencies to be made in that you know liability that goes in that you know liability that goes away but it's not the entire story so you still will need to go and find the users and that's
need to go and find the users and that's like extremely expensive and then sometimes it's even more expensive if you need to make them learn what like a 12 like 12 word password means or what like a mechanism to like that it's not intuitive is to recover like the secret key for your funds so that those things will add costs to that very like heavy cost of customer acquisition or will reduce that the universe of people that you can target and i think that's something that and I think that's something that from the business perspective it's not very positive so I have a question which is basically if you had something i mean and this sort of something I mean and this sort of relates specifically to step 30 which i think is a very clever way to give users access to their
way to give users access to their account without ever having them to touch a password or know a secret key or use a password or know a secret key or use a backup recovery phase they can basically log into a Stellar account using just their phone number or their email address some proof of identity right so with a solution like right so with a solution like that you know well i guess there's two you know well I guess there's two questions one does a solution like that solve the user experience and allow you to create a non-custodial sort of interface or solution that doesn't feel that sort of obfuscates the crypto nature of an app from a user like basically can using something like sub30 make it so that a user experience for non-custodial wallet is just like a custodial wallet one and two if it does it solve the biggest problems or does it does it only solve some of the problems and there are still a lot of problems left over that would still make you choose to use a custodial solution i mean maybe i can just I mean maybe I can just quickly say that i think it's the final
quickly say that I think it's the final user who will judge those things because at the end of the day for me because at the end of the day for me it's very intuitive to use a memo id just to identify a final user that actually hasn't been the case for the majority of users of exchanges so in a way like something that feels very intuitive in from the kind of the sign point of in from the kind of the sign point of view and this is true across many and this is true across many different steps that for me makes a lot of sense but once that they're implemented like things become trickier and i think that's the only thing that i and I think that's the only thing that i could say probably christian can that I could say probably christian can say much more yeah well i think well first of all i yeah well I think well first of all i like the basic idea of study and it's definitely a valid one we do have some problems with it by when we want to implement it that it's one thing that that's very common among when we implement step ecosystem proposals for those who don't know our standards in the stutter system that anchors or people building
system that anchors or people building on it can implement and then everyone can use it and it's interoperable between different clients and that is a good thing if you're a that is a good thing if you're a client for example there is step six and set 24 for deposits and withdrawals from anchors and it's super nice so basically i am as and it's super nice so basically I am as a developer i can go ahead and a developer I can go ahead and integrate 10 of them in a day and that's integrate 10 of them in a day and that's super nice for me as a client developer but to be honest it's not something i care about as a not something I care about as a developer what i care about is optimization of the what I care about is optimization of the user flow so for example deposits is the most crucial thing in our flow ever and if i can increase conversion there and if I can increase conversion there by one percent or by five percent or by ten percent then i would do that so it's not it's then I would do that so it's not it's I'm not fundamentally not interested in getting this thing done fast i want to get it done right and fast I want to get it done right and currently i can't do a b currently I can't do a b testing i can't do client-side testing I can't do client-side validations with steps and withdrawals for example just as an example for seventy grade just as an example for seventy grade so this sep integration as a whole focus on clients getting the
as a whole focus on clients getting the job done and that's not what we want to do and tab 30 is kind of the same thing it has tab 30 is kind of the same thing it has it automates the entire flow for our clients that we can just do it and then integrate a little integrate a lot with a lot of other clients who integrate 30 but it's not coming from the perspective of the client so for example i'll give you an example quite lately quite recently i've lost my two-factor authentication and i think two-factor authentication and I think was coinbase and it wasn't an automated process i had and it wasn't an automated process I had to censor my passport there was a person talking to me and that's fine it's something i would expect as a user it's something I would expect as a user and it encouraged me that this those people do their business right whereas on step 30 if the ease of the whereas on step 30 if the ease of the flow is like okay my email my sms is something i wouldn't my email my sms is something I wouldn't fundamentally like as a user to be connected with me that I'm just pushing a tech away from losing my entire life saving savings when someone captures my email and my wife quite recently changed her phone number she doesn't even have access to a whole number anymore so it's like it's kind of a weak thing for us
it's kind of a weak thing for us and it focuses a lot of it's being automated people don't have to hassle with it it's fully integrated it's decentralized and that's fundamentally not anything our users care about the basic care you just want to log into the app have an account and never care about it and for us it would be totally fine if there for us it would be totally fine if there would be just a person having an hd wallet in the physical world and it costs like thirty dollars or ten dollars or twenty dollars for key recovery because if it's below it doesn't make sense anyways if it's above fine or we could scale it but having an approach that's just focusing on the client side wouldn't cut it for our users so we would it for our users so we would have to have a process that's more tied to the user experience and the user doesn't want to care about that doesn't want to care about that at all i think that at all I think that just for my side i talked a lot so maybe just for my side I talked a lot so maybe i'll keep it shut now do you think that there's like i do you think that there's like i think we've mentioned think I think we've mentioned in a few points like there's this
in a few points like there's this issue of there's this issue of keys being lost and then what do people what do users go through to get their keys back and then we're talking separately about the products we're developing and all the functionality they provide do you think that there's room for custody as a product independent of the products you're developing so maybe I can take this one definitely so i don't know if this is starting to so I don't know if this is starting to christian but definitely for us that would be something we desperately want the ecosystem and it would have to be a custodian that and it would have to be a custodian that supports different Stellar assets as well and there are wallets that support lumens already and insurance that support lumix but to extend that to other assets and maybe even traits to some extent that would be definitely something we would want to integrate and that's actually what we're actively looking for I would want to make again the separation between custody and key
separation between custody and key recovery so we don't want to have custody we don't want one want so traditional custody solutions work like they don't expose a private key to anyone but even the users belonging to that and you send transactions to some kind of signing service to give it back so we of signing service to give it back so we don't want that we won't always want to have self custody and the user be in charge of the things with his with possession of his or her own key what we want on top is key recovery solutions pretty much like sub 30 would offer it conceptually with multiple recovery processes as weights where not each weight does not have the option to trade but i understand where he was coming from it I understand where he was coming from it was developed with a different was it was developed with a different thing in mind it was what was basically developed for the use case of not only key recovery it was as well developed for sharing keys and all kind of use cases that are required alongside when you're not the only one having access to that key and for that
having access to that key and for that step study makes a totally perfect job i think it's just like for our purposes but we don't want one all of those features we just basically want at any and in a very seldom selling case someone loses his or her key can recover it and for his or her key can recover it and for that i think it would be that I think it would be fine if there would be just like two or fine if there would be just like two or three maybe notaries or trust companies banks whatever who would provide the service and maybe just a call center or something maybe just a call center or something like that where people could provide their id's and initiate a recovery process so for the users of ours that would it doesn't have to be this decentralized solution because most of the users are not crypto maximalists who said everything needs to be decentralized and all these kind of things one thing if i could make a one thing if I could make a proposal that's a bit more technical involved would be that it's fundamental to Stellar to have counterparty risk right so you have to establish trust lines to assets or anchors where you say okay i trust those people so they say maybe I trust those people so they say maybe for this you say hello
for this you say hello these people are sitting in europe they are test by the regulators there they are test by the regulators there that's a bank in europe that hold the assets in custody so that's great i trust those guys great I trust those guys i encourage you to do so i established a trust line to these stock assets and maybe that would be true for custodians as well where you can say hey I'm establishing some kind of custodian custodial trust lines where i say hey this guy where I say hey this guy can or girl or entity can hold a specific weight of my assets so that you have it somehow baked into the protocol level but that's just for the far future for the very near future it would be just basically fine to have two or three who are not who are who establish trust by being used by many of the enterprises building up on Stellar marco and my heart I'm interested if that idea appeals to the two of you also which idea that basically the idea of there being
basically the idea of there being sort of trusted custodian professional custodians out there that you could i think in out there that you could I think in general it's it fulfills a need i i've seen always Stellar as a very I i've seen always Stellar as a very diverse ecosystem and i think that the problem of like and I think that the problem of like discussing topics of like one solution versus the other it's like it's not giving the full picture of what's happening so Stellar actually for example i the so Stellar actually for example I the way i see it way I see it is that at least in the ecosystem we touch there are multiple different roles and they will like some of them like will require something like that and some of them won't so for example like we're thinking imagine a migrant worker that has the need to send over 200 that's not the same need of the over 200 that's not the same need of the market maker that facilitates like the exchange rates that those other people benefit from that actually move millions of dollars so that makes that makes completely different needs and they're both using Stellar
both using Stellar so i think in one case so I think in one case like shared keys are badly needed and in other ways what some other projects are doing which is like completely abstract in a way and you know i why would a and you know I why would a company like ours would have the liability of the people's funds that's because like there aren't a lot of funds maybe you can actually of funds maybe you can actually because you're solving probably you have like you know capital requirements that exceed those people's funds so like those things will at the end of the day mitigate the risks and will make you capable of fronting such risks and i think that's what that's and I think that's what i see so in what I see so in my mind there's a lot of like sophisticated players in the storage system already in a way that understand like how the mechanics work but they aren't yet as many users as i would like to see i as many users as I would like to see i love to see every mexican who's
love to see every mexican who's working in a kitchen in new york using a system that touches Stellar and when you do that it's in my mind a product that completely looks like something that this community would expect and that's completely something far from something like except 30 or from something like except 30 or something like that because they don't want to deal with that it just one like deal with the same thing that they've been doing with other companies when things fail and that's like the market needed that we've seen yeah absolutely and I mean just one point that you made there that i do point that you made there that I do think is really important is that you know even when we're thinking about the requirements for just an application oftentimes there's a whole kind of like broader stack of ecosystem that's required to kind of make that end product exist and everybody who's in that value chain has kind of differing needs based on what they're doing so yeah i think that's fair you know so yeah I think that's fair you know i'd say well
i'd say well we're in our last 15 minutes here and so you know i think we're already kind of you know I think we're already kind of doing this but i would love to doing this but I would love to drive the discussion towards kind of identifying gaps or needs or we could also put these as opportunities within the ecosystem and so maybe i'll just phrase this in a slightly constraining manner to kick things off like if you marco to kick things off like if you marco meinhard and christian could wave a magic wand and have like one new thing exist in the Stellar ecosystem to support your vision of key management what would that look like what's the number one thing that you think would be super valuable for you whoever wants whoever has a response to that i can start by the already I can start by the already multiplexed accounts that we've touched before it's in general i think that
think that that's something that in my mind is something that was missing and i think i would that was missing and I think I would love to see completely adopted and the reason is because the way that i feel as a user like that I feel as a user like the way that memo ids are used it's kind of like not intuitive and it's it feels like a hack you know like you know every like a hack you know like you know every everyone's familiar with a payment app where you can also with a payment app where you can also like include a message that travels with a payment and so but in this with a payment and so but in this specific case we're like hacking that field that memo field to actually embed information and that will make the payment to route differently so that became like the default way of adopting Stellar like for exchanges and i think that you like for exchanges and I think that you know the entire ecosystem accepted that was the way to do it but i think if there's a better way
but I think if there's a better way to do it which in my mind it is multiplexed accounts in my mind it is multiplexed accounts we should like the sooner the better adopt something like that because you can actually free that field which is important for other use cases as an example the first implementation we did for bill pay actually encoded information about the bill that like the reference of the invoice that was intended to be paid and that was encrypted and sent over the memo so it's like to me those are things that other players may find like useful and interesting and will design that way and if we use that field as just an additional feel that together with the address we'll together with the address we'll actually run the payment to a different like destination i think that destination I think that that's completely in my mind something that shouldn't work that way
something that shouldn't work that way and you know some evidence is like people make a lot of mistakes when they're like put assets in and out of exchanges and i think it feels like it's it would and I think it feels like it's it would be focusing on people and companies using custodial wallets but i think it's the custodial wallets but I think it's the opposite i think opposite I think if it's widely adopted it's something that it would be there available for everybody and they will like just add a more intuitive way to just send payments to an address with an amount and that will like satisfy the need of like the routing and all the information that needs to travel with each payment so in my mind that's something that needs to be adopted obviously discussed before and for me that wouldn't be like that so you're putting your flag down on the
on the cap 27 planet in the Stellar ecosystem and i don't know where I'm going with and I don't know where I'm going with this but you're squarely on the cap 27 multiplexed account team yeah i think so okay team yeah I think so okay great wonderful meinhard looks like you maybe have a thing next great yeah so also cap 27 is really interesting for us and that's something unfortunately i can't something unfortunately I can't answer maybe a leak and clarify does it also sort of protects the privacy of the recipients or is it still easy to like conclude the address that's behind it because that is something also we would wish to have that we have also we would wish to have that we have not the complete balance of all of our clients immediately visible to maybe a sender and so in a way not anonymous but partially anonymous transactions at least for the recipient that would be quite interesting for us and then also something that christian earlier said
earlier said like a sort of a footed approach or a like a sort of a footed approach or a feathered federated approach for key recovery or even for a coastal resolution that would be definitely quite interesting and then you said i should pick one thing but maybe I should pick one thing but maybe also you can say a third thing it would be a sort of regulated entities that are offering this custody as a service and not just key recovery so that's definitely something we would that would solve a lot of problems for us right now because fundamentally we're not really also because of our consumer's perspective or our user's perspective maximalists and like you have to own your key ultimately we want to offer a transfer service that passes on all the advantages of blockchain or Stellar in this case mainly speed and transaction cost and also the transparency and it doesn't have to be fully self-custodial in our sense like we want to give the
in our sense like we want to give the user the choice and the user doesn't really care much about that they should have a online banking like experience and that we need to know what's behind it and not also having the need to learn new vocabulary and new approaches so that's like how we want to place our service that makes sense yeah i concur that I concur that you know it seems like having along with there being some kind of technical aspects to creating more capabilities around key management there's also potentially ecosystem partners that we could bring in that would really support this as well so and then lee did you do you know on cap 27 if it adds any do you know on cap 27 if it adds any anonymity or I'm not sure if that's something you're too up to date on so yeah so i can answer that it not I can answer that it not specifically so there's not like a feature cap 27 that would make it any more
that would make it any more anonymous than using a memo id for a transaction however you know the service that's using the services using cap 27 you know could rotate ids for users so they could change the id that a user is they could change the id that a user is using over time or you use some other strategies like or you use some other strategies like that obviously has some disadvantages if somebody is treating a cap 27 like a if somebody is treating a cap 27 like a market address as a you know an actual address for that user if it's changing that could be problematic but i feel like this is similar I feel like this is similar to virtual credit card numbers where you have like a credit card and then you have like model ones you use for different merchants maybe or different people things like that okay great thank you lee and then christian yeah well there's a short time and there's long term so
there's long term so basically we're fundamentally focusing on non-crypto users and for non-crypto users convenience is important so there's a reason why things like what's app are more popular than things like ebay's because they are just more convenient and user slower in terms of the more convenient solution all those but I think that fundamentally the key recovery is not should be easy on the recovery process the easy on the recovery process can be hard if i lose recovery process can be hard if I lose my wallets like my physical wallets my credit cards in it I'm up for that it will be a complicated process to get that all sorted so that that's fine but setting up my wallet and setting up my key that you that should be the my key that you that should be the easy part and for us like the easiest solution would be just hey on the concretion when you create your account on d stock we would just add two account on d stock we would just add two or three trusted and reputable public keys and those people do have some kind of recovery process if i wouldn't be totally filled with work at d stock i
totally filled with work at d stock i would right now fund a company started start a startup doing exactly that because there's a need for that and like in the long term i could see that like in the long term I could see that I'm better than the protocol that's the one thing i said was having trust lines to these custodials pretty much like you have trust lines to add to assets or anchors would be a nice way maybe even you could one could think about that when you have an account and it holds assets from multiple different anchors that you can say that those anchors could jointly recover and cover your key by depending on the weights and how many assets you have there as well as cloud acid clawback with cap 35 could put a great job into that but that's like it would be awesome to have it in the protocol embedded but like for our needs it wouldn't even be required for short-term solution would be just like victory hey let's get two or three trustable notary solicitors something like that out there that we all trust and where we say hey that we all trust and where we say hey let's give each other it doesn't cost me a lot of money other it doesn't cost me a lot of money so that it could be like small
so that it could be like small no trees that are just regulated in some country and you just say put them up put a process behind that you can recover and then that you can recover and then i think it would be fine question just I think it would be fine question just to as a quick clarification I'm not sure i can exactly sure I can exactly actually conceptualize what this would look like if it was embedded in the protocol and i know it's like protocol and I know it's like very early stages high level but i mean very early stages high level but I mean could you maybe illustrate that a little bit more like what you think that would look like basically that if you have so the basic idea currently is that you have at public keys as a signer and what you could do is when you say and what you could do is when you say hey we create trust licenses and take that for custodian but these custodians could jointly recover your key even though they don't have weights in your public key could be so basically they would have these anchors would have a public private keeper somewhere on the chain and this public private keeper would have the right to recover addresses they would have been added as
addresses they would have been added as a signer but you don't have to explicitly had them as a signer so basically you create a trust line to three custodians and then these three custodians could jointly recover your funds but you don't have to add them as a signer so you don't have this kind of multi-signature thing added to your account gotcha okay that's really useful great well this has been a super interesting and useful discussion and i have to say and I'm sure justin and lee feel the same you know there's been a lot to take same you know there's been a lot to take in and digest i really appreciate you guys sharing I really appreciate you guys sharing your perspective and opinion on this and i have a feeling I have a feeling we're kind of just kicking this discussion off so we did have one or two questions from the audience which i will the audience which I will get up in front of me in just a second oh not that one there we go a second oh not that one there we go so i'll just throw this out to
so i'll just throw this out to everyone i guess can non-custodial everyone I guess can non-custodial wallet apps connect to a bank and have a user receive funds to a bank and have a user receive funds in their native currency so that's kind of like a non-custodial to custodial payout flow i believe the answer to this is yes I believe the answer to this is yes this is actually a type of payment flow that we facilitate on Stellar yeah i don't know i think yeah I don't know I think this is the intention of all those all the steps that have been adopted so it's like normally an anchor that complies with the existing seps what they would with the existing seps what they would do is basically allow non-custodial solution to be able to get from an anchor services like ours like for example a bank informations that they can like go from their own bank account to like the bank account that the anchor has and then that would in exchange
has and then that would in exchange you know give the user some equivalent of tokens so that some equivalent of tokens so that flow it's precisely how today it's precisely how today all of the active anchors are all of the active anchors are doing yeah you can use lobster or vibrant to deposit a number of different anchors because they already interoperate perfect great thanks guys and then maybe justin this one's for you step 30 and cap 27 both look cool do any of the dev libraries or wallets support these currently yeah that's an interesting question and part of why i think it was good to start part of why I think it was good to start to have this discussion cap 27 which marco advocated for earlier but has come up a couple of times is called multiplexed accounts it adds a new kind of Stellar address at the protocol level basically allows a single Stellar account to map to multiple users it was added to protocol 13. however there's it's kind of like we
however there's it's kind of like we put in the wiring but we didn't put any put in the wiring but we didn't put any plugs or switches right like there's no manifestation of this and horizon are in the sdks and there's no clear way are in the sdks and there's no clear way no clear like methods or standards for actually using these mixed accounts so they're there they're just hidden away and so with those cap 27 specifically in order to really be able to use it we'd first to really be able to use it we'd first have to build out the sort of platform layers on top of the protocol and then we'd have to start working with people to figure out how they would actually use those so cap 27 is possible but not really implemented in any existing applications step 30 on the other hand which is not at the protocol level right it basically specifies how you can split key recovery across multiple different servers run by different by different operators right so instead of having a single key or instead of trying it relies on third parties running these things
third parties running these things called recovery servers right now vibrant which is a wallet that sort of is facilitates usd savings at the moment mostly that relies that uses two recovery servers to implement sub 30 but if other people in the ecosystem wanted to start implementing sub 30 in their wallets this specific key recovery method we would need to as an ecosystem get people to run these things recovery servers right recovery servers which are sort of the servers that you delegate to allow a user to access their account if they lose their key so short answer step 30 is implemented in one wallet and could be in more if we set up and could be in more if we set up recovery servers that people could use and by we i mean that people could use and by we I mean the ecosystem as a whole having to add one point so this idea that i mentioned about having trust that I mentioned about having trust lines for focus for not custodians but for key recovery people the major change that it would add sorry my microphone
sorry my microphone brother the major change that it would add to the current solution is that the current solution if you add it as a signer like in step 30 then you are always getting the other rights as well so you can always like jointly transfer funds and stuff like that having these kind of recovery service at the protocol level then it would really be just okay I'm adding those people and they can give me a process to recover my they can give me a process to recover my keys but they can never do payments transactions even if they are colluding or jointly hacked those kind of stuff and that would put a lot of clearance on the legal side put a lot of clearance on the legal side and it would make this the entire setup a lot easier you don't have to store keys online and things like that so just clarify that yeah i know that we don't have like a lot I know that we don't have like a lot of time left but i think it's interesting but I think it's interesting to keep the conversation going especially because i think the especially because I think the multiplexed accounts can offer actually widely adopted some level of obfuscation to the payments if like people start using it because as lee said like people can use them
lee said like people can use them as you know like as dynamic debit card numbers and it's interesting if the entire ecosystem adopts it then like people would be sending money over with different m accounts and that will like obvious scale a lot of the information which is really interesting yeah well it sounds like on both fronts both on kind of step 30s on both fronts both on kind of step 30s key recovery design and muxed accounts on the cop27 side we have a lot of thinking to do i think have a lot of thinking to do I think you know as we kind of said in the you know as we kind of said in the beginning this is the beginning of these conversations or maybe the middle i guess they've been going on for middle I guess they've been going on for a while so we'll definitely be continuing them so with that i would say you know i so with that I would say you know i think it's time to wrap up the discussion today but i think it's likely we may want but I think it's likely we may want to all meet back here in a few months certainly after meridian and continue this conversation hopefully
and continue this conversation hopefully making some progress in the time between so you know again christian mind hard marco we can't thank you enough for your time today and for sharing your perspective and i hope everyone has a wonderful and I hope everyone has a wonderful halloween weekend and we'll talk again soon thanks everybody